---
title: Running the Game
---
# Running the Game

### Obstacles

Obstacles can be basically anything that stands in the way of a player character doing the thing that they want to do. This could be a person, a situation, or an object. When a player attempts to overcome an obstacle they take an action, and they make a roll for that action. The player will assemble their die pool using their chosen stat, as well as any aspects or assets that would be beneficial in that situation. As the GM, you will create a die pool starting with the harm die associated with the players chosen stat, as well as any negative traits that may be relevant. Additionally, you should select a die to represent the obstacle itself. A d4 would be relatively low risk, something will a very small risk of failure, but enough that you still feel it's relevant to make a roll. A d6 is a moderate risk and should probably be considered the "baseline" level of obstacle. A d8 is slightly more challenging, but likely fairly doable, a d10 would be incredibly challenging, and a d12 would represent the highest possible level of challenge that can still be overcome. Any higher and the player simply does not roll, as the task would be impossible.

Resolving these rolls can happen in a couple of ways. The first is a simple action that is resolved in a single roll, you simply read the results and you're done. If the player succeeds that obstacle is no longer an issue, if they fail it will likely still be an issue, if it's a mixed success then the obstacle is gone but the player character still suffers a negative consequence. For a more complex situation, you may want to roll more than once to represent the progress on a particular task. For this, when a player succeeds, then the obstacle die is reduced by one level, going from a d8 to a d6 for example. When a d4 obstacle is reduced, then the obstacle is completely cleared and the players have successfully accomplished their task. However, every time that they fail is an opportunity for something bad to happen to the players, and for their situation to become more complex. As always, a failure increases the harm die for a player, increasing the difficulty of using that stat. 

For complex tasks you may want to think about using multiple dice to represent the obstacle, if you believe that it's not especially difficult, but would take a number of steps to complete. For example, an obstacle represented by 2 d6s would be relatively easy to complete, but require 4 steps before it is done. Complex puzzles, picking locks, hacking into a database, translating an ancient text, or establishing a connection to a distant sattelite might all work this way. 

It's important to note that increasing a die size is more impactful on the odds of a player failing than increasing the number of dice, though both play a role. Adding more dice does require more roles and therefore give more opportunities for failure, and therefore dealing harm to player characters.

### NPCs

NPCs are simply obstacles that have their own goals. Generally speaking an NPC will have a base die that represents how challenging of an obstacle that they might be. They can also have additional dice that represent what their goals are, something significant about their background, or an asset that they have. Sometimes the goal is simple if the character is relatively unimportant, and therefore it can be represented as part of the base die. For example you can have a d6 door guard who simply wants to guard the door. This guard could be fought, distracted, or bribed and all of these things would be relatively easy to do as they are simply a d6 obstacle. 

However, if the guard believes in something you can give them an additional die such as d8 duty: do not let anyone in. This die represents the job that they were assigned and their conviction to do it properly. This guard is now more significant because of the additional die that can be used in the pool, and the added difficulty for the player characters that it creates. However, they are still not very good at anything that isn't their assigned job, so getting the guard to try something that isn't related to not letting people in would be a pretty simple task to accomplish as they can only roll their d6 guard die (in adddition to the normal harm and negative trait dice of the player character).

Groups of NPCs can also be represented by dice, the same as a complex task. You can simply give them a 2d8 angry mob, or something similar. More dice can indicate larger mobs and higher dice can indicate a mob that is more of a threat to the players. Even if the mob has multiple dice assigned as a single obstacle, you still only keep the single highest die when you roll.